Add `osu!(lazer) Updates: March 21, 2025` news post (#13016)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-03-23-osulazer-updates-march-21-2025.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu!(lazer) Updates: March 21, 2025"
date: 2025-03-23 18:30:00 +0000
---

A new osu!(lazer) update is delivered by a soft spring breeze.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-03-23-osulazer-updates-march-21-2025/banner.jpg)

> Mother Nature is slowly rolling out the new Spring 2025 update, featuring warmer weather, more sun, and more greenery all across the board! Despite all of graphical and weather updates, the osu! developers still made time to focus and drop an update of their own for the osu!community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mother Nature is slowly rolling out the new spring 2025 update, featuring warmer weather, more sun, and more greenery all across the board! Despite all of graphical and weather updates, the osu! developers still made time to focus and drop an update of their own for the osu! community.
```

<div align="center">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cL4iwng19Ow" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

### Editor

- **The "discard unsaved changes" operation has been added to the editor.** Sometimes those new changes you've made just don't work out.

> - **The Kiai/star sound effect has now been added and made skinnable.** The new sound effect can be heard on the osu!argon skins, and you can use `fountain-shoot.wav` to place a sound of your own!

Reviewer: it's a new addition since the last video

```suggestion
- **A new skinnable Kiai/star fountain sound effect has been added.** The new sound effect can be heard on the osu! argon skins, and you can use `fountain-shoot.wav` to place a sound of your own!
```

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2025-03-23-kiai-sfx.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

- **Editor grid spacing can now be set up to 256 pixels.** Hate the editor grid? You can now get rid of it entirely.

> - **Right-click-for-new-combo and right-click-delete combinations have been added back in object placement mode.** Deleting objects has never been so easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Right-click-for-new-combo and right-click-delete combinations have been added back in object placement mode.** Deleting objects has never been so easy. While in selection mode, you'll still have to hold `Shift` to delete things quickly due to regular right-click opening a context menu.
```

### Gameplay

- **Beatmap information is now shown in the window title when playing or editing a beatmap.** This might go unnoticed by the majority, but those who do notice it will appreciate it.

> - **Freestyle multiplayer results screen now shows the correct beatmap details for all users.** Previously it showed the same beatmap for everyone, regardless of game mode selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The freestyle multiplayer results screen now shows the correct beatmap details for all users.** Previously it showed the same beatmap for everyone, regardless of the game mode selected.
```

- **Minor design adjustments have been made for mobile gameplay.** The osu!mania mobile layout can now be customised, and a fix was rolled out for osu!taiko since the playfield was more zoomed-in than needed, causing less objects to be seen at once.

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2025-03-23-mania-mobile-2.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> - **The difficulty attributes in mod select are now properly highlighted for all applicable mods.** On some mods (Hard Rock being an example), the updated difficulty attributes such as OD (overall difficulty) and AR (approach rate) were not properly updated up until this update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The difficulty settings in mod select are now properly highlighted for all applicable mods.** On some mods (Hard Rock being an example), you weren't able to see clearly that they change difficulty settings such as OD (overall difficulty) and AR (approach rate) until this update.
```

### Other

> - **Minor design adjustments have been made to the leaderboards and multiplayer lounge.** The scale of rooms in multiplayer lounge has been lowered, and the leaderboard was adjusted slightly, although a major redesign of the whole song select screen is slated for next release.

Reviewer: you never know

```suggestion
- **Minor design adjustments have been made to the leaderboards and multiplayer lounge.** The scale of rooms in multiplayer lounge has been lowered, and the leaderboard was adjusted slightly, although a major redesign of the whole song select screen is slated for next release (fingers crossed).
```

- **The taskbar will now flash when a multiplayer game starts.** This is a life-saver for those who constantly tab out of the game.
- **Beatmap user tags have been added, along with the ability to vote on them after completing a play.** With the shutdown of [apollodw](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9558549)'s [OMDB](https://omdb.nyahh.net/), the various tags have been ported over to the game itself, and anyone who sets a play over a certain threshold will be able to vote on the tags.

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2025-03-23-user-tags.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> - **The tip pressure threshold option has been added in the tablet settings.** This can both serve as a utility for niche play styles, or it might give a dying tablet some extra life span.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The tip pressure threshold is now configurable in the tablet settings.** This can both serve as a utility for niche play styles, or it might give a dying tablet some extra life span.
```

- **Team beatmap leaderboards have been added.** You can now compete exclusively with your osu teammates!
- **More functionality has been added upon right-clicking a user in the chat window.** You can now right-click on anyone in chat to spectate them, or invite them to your multiplayer room.

---

> We know that with spring rolling around, many of you will partake in the spring-cleaning process, but if you were to add one new thing to your life, let that be [osu!(lazer)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download)!

Reviewer: i think this sounds weirdly preachy

```suggestion
Spring is often the start of new things. Maybe trying out [osu!(lazer)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download) could be one of them.
```

> If you are interested in the full details of the March 2025 updates, you can start with the [March 6th changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2025.306.0) and work your way up to the [latest one](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2025.321.0)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were a few releases during the last weeks that we've bundled together into this recap. If you are interested in the full details of the March 2025 updates, you can start with the [March 6th changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2025.306.0) and work your way up to the [latest one](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2025.321.0)!

By the way, you read the title right, because this update came out *two* days ago. We're still not skipping any beats, even if we may drag a little.
```
